# 2026-02-01 to 2026-02-03
Shamefully, I gaped for a year and started again in 2026 :). Happily, I had my first baby born. It will be more challenging to build my cybersec career, as expected. But this is great. Not an execuse for staying in my comfort zone.

Using the first-principles thinking, to be a cybersec expert, someone has to have adequate related knowledge and a lot of practice. Considering my education background and work, I believe I have solid knowledge but lack of practice, e.g. I know how bufferflow/ret2libc works in theory, but I am not familiar with how to use pwntools to exploit them.

So, let's just practice. Face the fear. Since I need to stay home to take care of the baby, I cannot go fishing. I have a plenty of time now :)

In these days, I was re-practicing the HTB challenges "Space Pirate: Entrypoint" (FSB vuln)  and "Regularity" (BF + jmp_rsi + shellcode). I also learnt the pwninit tool which eases the initial tasks. And I don't just practice them once and then forget them. I repeat the solution every morning until it becomes natural.

Like what I learned from my first OSCP failure: I've already have everything I need, I just don't trust myself and don't know how to use them.

Again, no execuse to stay in the comfort zone.

# 2026-02-07
Working on the HTB challenge "Space Pirate: Retribution" again. Successfully find the leaked ELF base and use the BF to jump back to the missile_launcher function for next ret2libc attack.

Will continue the attack tomorrow.

# 2026-02-08
Finished the HTB challenge "Space Pirate: Retribution" again without any walkthrough. With some help from the Gemini though.

Will continue working on the rest very easy and easy pwn type challenges.

# 2026-02-10
After stucked for a day, finally solved the power-greed challenge. Things learned:
1. `pwn checksec` may give wrong result. RTFSC.
2. if `system()` is missing, try use instruction `syscall` directly.
3. ROP can happen in statically-linked binary, not necessarily with ret2libc.

Will check the official writeup and see if I missed anything.

# 2026-02-11
Finished the quack-quack challenge on my own! Pretty easy once you figured out that we can read the stack canary and bypass the stack canary check. Also found there is an interesteing function already for reading the flags.

# 2026-02-13
Failed to solve the challenge "blessing". Overthinked it. Nothing too fancy about the malloc. Just some edge cases in programming logic. Solved with the help of official writeup.

# 2026-02-14
Solved pwn challenges "el-muno", "reg", "great old talisman" very easy. Getting better now because I once tried the reg but didn't solve it quickly. This is a good sign!

# 2026-02-15
Solved pwn challenge "laconic". Read the writeup. Good to learn this new SROP technique!

Solved pwn challenge assembler-avenge. Proudly found out a "staged" shellcode. But also learned some shellcode compression technique from the offical solution.
